# Project title

Investigating the influence of crime rate in New York City on the number of Airbnb listings per neighberhood.

## Research motivation
*Motivate your research question or business problem. Clearly explain which problem is solved.*
The growth in popularity of peer-to-peer rental platforms such as Airbnb in recent years has brough several benefits such as bringing in new streams of economic activity, yet with these positives also arise certain issues for to the neighbourhoods. One of the major concerns is the crime rate in the neighbourhoods around Airbnb rental properties. Not only the people living in these areas get affected in terms of their safety, but also crime has to be shown to have a negative effect on property values and businesses (Lens and Meltzer, 2016).Our investigation is inspired from previous studies where the  methodological use of Airbnb listings were used as a proxy measure for neighborhood instability in the examination of crime pattern. For the purpose of this study, an example of in New York City will be used. Previous studies have taken place in Florida and other parts of the U.S, therefore it will be interesting to investigate the differences in results across difference locations in the United States. The data on Airbnb listings in NY City is available on Inside Airbnb and the complaint data reported to the New York City Police is available on NYC Open Data. A prior study of Airbnb listings in the U.S, Florida showed that  correlations with crime were tied to the type of Airbnb listings, the findings showed that there was a positive correlation with crime, but in areas with greater concentration of Airbnb listings of shared-room types, rather than entire homes. Thefore, it is important to investigate how the growth of AirBnB affects the crime rate. 

## Methodology and results
*First, introduce and motivate your chosen method, and explain how it contributes to solving the research question/business problem.*
*Second, summarize your results concisely. Make use of subheaders where appropriate.*
The investigated time span is from X till X. All data is daily/monthly etc. 
Regression analysis

Possible Sub-questions to investigate:
Investigating the cost/benifit analysis of growing number of Airbnb listings
Are the owners of Airbnb listings actual residents of the neighborhoods they list? 
Are they outsiders to whom profits are siphoned out of the community?
Do the dollars generated by users of Airbnbs outweigh any possible expenses that may come with a possible greater vulnerability to crime?

## Repository overview
*Provide an overview of the directory structure and files, for example:*

├── README.md
├── data
├── gen
│   ├── analysis
│   ├── data-preparation
│   └── paper
└── src
    ├── analysis
    ├── data-preparation
    └── paper

## Running instructions
*Explain to potential users how to run/replicate your workflow. If necessary, touch upon the required input data, which secret credentials are required (and how to obtain them), which software tools are needed to run the workflow (including links to the installation instructions), and how to run the workflow.*



## Sources
Lens, M. C. and Meltzer, R. (2016). Is crime bad for business? crime and commercial property values in new york city. Journal of Regional Science, 56(3):442-470.

# Will format properly later https://thecrimereport.org/2021/08/06/is-there-a-link-between-airbnb-and-neighborhood-crime-rates/#:~:text=An%20earlier%20study%20of%20Airbnb,types%2C%20rather%20than%20entire%20homes.


## About
*Explain who has contributed to the repository. You can say it has been part of a class you've taken at Tilburg University.*


## Information on how to write READ ME file
Information on Tilburg Science Hub: https://tilburgsciencehub.com/building-blocks/store-and-document-your-data/document-data/readme-best-practices/
